[new] qStudio integrations (#2588)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/integrations/query-admin/qstudio.md

for your Timescale database.

For more information about `qStudio`, including download and installation
instructions, see [timestored.com][qstudio-downloads].

## Before you begin

*   Download and install [qStudio][qstudio-downloads].

<Tabs label="Connect to Timescale with qStudio">

<Tab title="Timescale">

<Procedure>

1.  Sign in to the [Timescale portal][tsc-portal], and navigate to the `Services` 
     tab. For the service you want to connect to, check it is marked as `Running`, 
     and take note of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database name`, and `Username`.
1.  [](#)<Optional />If you do not know the password for the service, navigate
    to the `Operations` tab, and click `Reset password`. You can choose your own
    password for the service, or allow Timescale to generate a
    secure password for you. Take note of your new password.
1.  Start `qStudio`, navigate to the `Server` tab, and click `Add Server`.
1.  In the `Server Properties` dialog, complete these details:
    *   For `Server Type`, select `Postgres`.
    *   For `Connect By`, select `Host`.
    *   For the `Host`, `Port`, `Database`, `Username` and `Password`, use 

>          your Service connection details. For more information about these 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         your service connection details. For more information about these 
```

         settings, see [the connection section][connection-details].
1.  Click `Test` to check if the connection is successful.
1.  Click `Add` to add the connection.
    The server is listed in the `Server Tree` pane.

    <img class="maincontent__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/qstudio_timescale.webp"
    alt="Connecting to Timescale service using qstudio"/>

</Procedure>

</Tab>

<Tab title="Self-hosted Timescale">

<Procedure>

1.  Start `qStudio`.
1.  In the `Server` tab click `Add Server`.
1.  In the `Server Properties` dialog, complete these details:
    *   For `Server Type`, select `Postgres`.
    *   For `Connect By`, select `Host`.
    *   For the `Host`, `Port`, `Database`, `Username` and `Password`, use 

>          your Service connection details. For more information about these 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         your service connection details. For more information about these 
```

         settings, see [the connection section][connection-details].
1.  Click `Test` to check if the connection is successful.
1.  Click `Add` to add the connection.
    The server is listed in the `Server Tree` pane.

    <img class="maincontent__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/qstudio_self_hosted.webp"
    alt="Connecting to Timescale using qstudio"/>

</Procedure>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Connection settings

This table provides the description and example values for the fields in
`Connection` dialog of `Server Properties`.

|Setting|Example value|Description|
|-|-|-|

> |Host|`localhost`, `postgresql.example.com`, `<REMOTE_HOST>.tsdb.cloud.timescale.com`|The fully qualified server name or IP address of your TimescaleDB server or the host name of your Timescale service.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Host|`localhost`, `postgresql.example.com`, `<REMOTE_HOST>.tsdb.cloud.timescale.com`|The fully qualified server name or IP address of your TimescaleDB server, or the hostname of your Timescale service.|
```

> |Port|`5432`|The port number of the TimescaleDB server, Timescale service.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Port|`5432`|The port number of the TimescaleDB server, or Timescale service.|
```

> |Username|`postgres`, `tsdbadmin`|The user name you want to log in with. Use `tsdbadmin` for Timescale services|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Username|`postgres`, `tsdbadmin`|The user name you want to log in with. Use `tsdbadmin` for Timescale services.|
```

> |Password|*password*|The password for the database user you are connecting to.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Password||The password for the database user you are connecting to.|
```

> |Database|`tsdb`|This option connects to the default database. The database name for a Timescale service is `tsdb`. You can also specify the name of the database to connect to.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Database|`tsdb`|The name of the database to connect to. For a Timescale service, use `tsdb`.|
```

Reviewer: I suspect we can get some more parallelism into this table with some effort 🤔

---
title: qStudio
excerpt: Connect to your Timescale database with qStudio
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [connect]
---

# Connect to Timescale using qStudio

> [qStudio][qstudio] is a free SQL GUI to run SQL scripts, browse the tables,
> create charts and export the results. You can install qStudio on every operating
> system and connect to every database including Timescale. You can connect to
> Timescale hosted on your local machine or on a remote server or a Timescale
> service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [qStudio][qstudio] to run queries, browse tables, and create charts for your Timescale database.
```

For more information about `qStudio`, including download and installation
instructions, see [timestored.com][qstudio-downloads].

## Before you begin

*   Download and install [qStudio][qstudio-downloads].

<Tabs label="Connect to Timescale with qStudio">

<Tab title="Timescale">

<Procedure>

> 1.  Sign in to the [Timescale portal][tsc-portal].
> 1.  In the `Services` tab, find the service you want to connect to, and check
>     it is marked as `Running`.
> 1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to, and take a note
>      of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database name`, and `Username`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Sign in to the [Timescale portal][tsc-portal], and navigate to the `Services` 
     tab. For the service you want to connect to, check it is marked as `Running`, 
     and take a note of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database name`, and `Username`.
```

1.  [](#)<Optional />If you do not know the password for the service, navigate
    to the `Operations` tab, and click `Reset password`. You can choose your own
    password for the service, or allow Timescale to generate a
    secure password for you. Take a note of your new password.

> 1.  Start `qStudio`.
> 1.  In the `Server` tab click `Add Server`.
> 1.  In the `Server Properties` dialog select `Server Type` as `Postgres`.
> 1.  Set `Connect By` as `URL`
> 1.  Set the `Host`, `Port`,`Database`, `Username` and `Password`.For more
>     information about these settings,
>     see [the connection section][connection-details].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Start `qStudio`, navigate to the `Server` tab, and click `Add Server`.
1.  In the `Server Properties` dialog, complete these details:
    *   For `Server Type`, select `Postgres`.
    *   For `URL`, select `Connect By`.
    *   For the `Host`, `Port`,`Database`, `Username` and `Password`, use 
         your Service connection details. For more information about these 
         settings, see [the connection section][connection-details].
```

1.  Click `Test` to check if the connection is successful.

> 1.  Click `Add` to add the database server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Add` to add the connection.
```

    The server is listed in the `Server Tree` pane.

    <img class="maincontent__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/qstudio_timescale.webp"
    alt="Connecting to Timescale service using qstudio"/>

</Procedure>

</Tab>

<Tab title="Self-hosted Timescale">

<Procedure>

1.  Start `qStudio`.
1.  In the `Server` tab click `Add Server`.
1.  In the `Server Properties` dialog select `Server Type` as `Postgres`.
1.  Set `Connect By`as `Host`.
1.  Set the `Host`, `Port`,`Database`, `Username` and `Password`. For more
    information about these settings,
    see [the connection section][connection-details].
1.  Click `Test` to check if the connection is successful.
1.  Click `Add` to add the database server.

>     The server is listed in the `Server Tree` pane.

Reviewer: Use the bullets for completing the dialog, like the other procedure. ☝️

Author: Done!!! Makes sense :)

    <img class="maincontent__illustration"
    src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/qstudio_self_hosted.webp"
    alt="Connecting to Timescale using qstudio"/>

</Procedure>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

> ## Settings in `Connection`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connection settings
```
